.TH TMSU 1 General Commands Manual
.SH NAME
tmsu \- tag files and view them in a tag-based virtual filesystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B tmsu
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIARGUMENT\fR]...
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
TMSU is a program for organising files by associating them with tags.
A tag based view of the files can be mounted as a virtual filesystem
so that the files can be accessed via tag from any other program.
.SH GLOBAL OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
show verbose messages
.TP
\fB-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show help and exit
.TP
\fB-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
show version inforamtion and exit
.TP
\fB-d\fR \fIPATH\fR, \fB\-\-database\fR=\fIPATH\fR
use the specified database
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B
copy
Creates a copy of a tag
.TP
.B
delete
Delete one or more tags
.TP
.B
dupes
Identify duplicate files
.TP
.B
files
List files with particular tags
.TP
.B
help
List commands or show help for a particular command
.TP
.B
imply
Creates a tag implication
.TP
.B
merge
Merge tags
.TP
.B
mount
Mount the virtual filesystem
.TP
.B
rename
Rename a tag
.TP
.B
repair
Repair the database
.TP
.B
stats
Show database statistics
.TP
.B
status
List the file tagging status
.TP
.B
tag
Apply tags to files
.TP
.B
tags
List tags
.TP
.B
unmount
Unmount the virtual filesystem
.TP
.B
untag
Remove tags from files
.TP
.B
version
Display version and copyright information
.SH FILES
.TP
.B
~/.tmsu/defaultdb
the default database path
.PP
The TMSU database is stored in Sqlite3 format and can be accessed
directly, if necessary, with the Sqlite3 tooling.
.PP
The default database path can be overriden by specifying
the \fB--database=\fR\fIPATH\fR global option or by setting
the \fBTMSU_DB\fR environment variable.
.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES
.TP
\fBTMSU_DB\fR
the database path (overriden by the \fB--database\fR option)
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Paul Ruane <paul@tmsu.org>.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please report any bugs to the project mailing list <ml@tmsu.org>
or add to the issue tracker via http://tmsu.org/.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © 2011-2013 Paul Ruane.

This program comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions.
See the accompanying COPYING file for further details.
